README.md, before:

![KSS2Banner](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3b2adaf-f4bc-4d4f-abfc-13baac337d79)

![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/total?label=Downloads&logo=github&color=4DC820&style=for-the-badge)
![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2?label=Latest&style=for-the-badge&color=brightgreen)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/609404909464453120?label=Discord&logo=discord&style=for-the-badge)](https://discord.com/invite/8mKywDaujE)
[![License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC--ND%204.0-lightgrey.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)

# 🌌 Kerbal Star Systems 2
Kerbal Star Systems 2 (KSS2) expands Kerbal Space Program beyond Kerbol, opening the door to interstellar travel and a set of fully original star systems shaped by real astrophysics and Kerbal curiosity.

Expect unfamiliar suns, unpredictable environments, and planets that don’t always behave the way you hoped they would. Orbits can be tight, atmospheres can be hostile, and long-distance missions have a habit of revealing design flaws at the worst possible moment.

KSS2 focuses on star systems that feel intentional rather than oversized. Planetary behavior, visual character, and gameplay challenges are designed together, so exploration rewards careful planning, creative problem-solving, and the occasional rapid unscheduled disassembly.

The mod is actively developed, with multiple systems and expansions already playable and more added over time. Stability and refinement are a priority, ensuring that when things go wrong, it’s part of the experience, not a technical surprise.

Developed by one of the longest-active modmakers in the Kerbal Space Program community, KSS2 builds on many years of experimentation, iteration, and learning what works (and what definitely doesn’t). That experience shows in a universe designed to be ambitious, resilient, and very hard to accidentally break—at least not without trying.

---

## 🎯 Why Play KSS2?

- **Venture beyond Kerbol**, travel to entirely new star systems, each handcrafted with care, science, and imagination.  
- **Experience true progression**, uncover late-game missions, ancient anomalies, and interstellar challenges that reward curiosity and persistence.  
- **Lose yourself in the atmosphere**, dynamic clouds, auroras, wormholes, and stars bring each world to life.  
- **Built for players, refined by experience**, optimized for both beauty and performance, shaped by over a decade of worldbuilding and community passion.  

---

## 🌠 Included Star Systems  
_All systems are original creations. They take cues from real space, then the Kerbals made them… stranger._

| In-game System | Inspiration | Short Description |
|----------------|-------------|------------------|
| **Aethera** | TRAPPIST-1 | A tiny red dwarf with planets packed so close you could almost wave at the neighbors. Expect tides, heat traps, and tight orbits. |
| **Nova Kirbani** | Alpha Centauri (A+B) + Proxima | A three-star family: one bright, one steady, one grumpy and flaring. Plenty of worlds caught in their long, complicated dance. |
| **Kormin** | Luhman 16A | A glowing brown dwarf that refuses to behave like a proper star. Warm light, weird seasons, and planets that never quite cool off. |
| **Seereon** | Sirius | A very bright star with a very dense companion. Great for navigation, less great for anything that melts easily. |
| **Orbel** | Pollux | A puffed-up giant star past its prime, slowly cooking its planets into new and exciting shapes. |
| **Kerr** | Galactic Center / Sag A* | A black-hole system where physics cries a little. Extreme gravity, strange lights, and hazards Kerbals definitely weren’t meant to visit. |
| **Pandor Expansion** | Pandora (Avatar (franchise) | Adds a lush, bioluminescent Pandora-analogue moon orbiting the gas giant around Nova Kirbani A. Beautiful, hostile, and rich in scientific rewards. |
| **Red Blalo Expansion** | Crimsica (Helldivers 2) | Reimagines Blalo (Nova Kirbani B System) as its heavily debated red variant, with more oxidized terrain and altered red oceans. |


---

## 📦 Quick Start
| Requirement | Details |
|---|---|
| **KSP Version** | `1.12.x` |
| **RAM** | 16 GB minimum |
| **GPU** | 1–2 GB VRAM recommended |

**Install**
1. Get the latest release: **[GitHub Releases](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/releases)**
2. Follow the **[Installation Guide](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/wiki/How-to-Install-Kerbal-Star-Systems-2)**
3. Install all required dependencies
4. ⚠️ **Manual install only** - CKAN is not supported !

---


## 🖼️ Showcase
| <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a7afcc6-406c-47c3-ab89-18bc99d784d9" width="450"/> | <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/89b76992-11e8-4c27-840e-411c56d46093" width="450"/> |
|:--:|:--:|
| *Kormin and its moon system* | *Kerr* |

| <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2e66c999-f8c6-463b-868d-30315b8fb2b7" width="450"/> | <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d47d24ad-649f-428d-810a-9f0cb9fbcfe5" width="450"/> |
|:--:|:--:|
| *Aethera erupting in a stellar flare* | *Polynovin and its satellites* |

| <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7d4b14f-b193-4c4b-b172-19cecee8312a" width="450"/> | <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bcd6827d-7e92-4760-b465-b29b6c4c1196" width="450"/> |
|:--:|:--:|
| *Surface of Xolem* | *Surface of Blalo under dim skies* |


---

## 🚀 Features
- Scientifically-inspired systems and planetary design  
- Dynamic atmospheres and **EVE Volumetrics** cloud layers  
- Wormholes, (pulsars in the future), and other exotic phenomena  
- Late-game contracts and discoveries  
- Optimized visuals with **Scatterer** and performance-tuned configs

<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4eb1da6c-3320-4e36-92e8-54d95aed783e" width="1920" height="1080" />
<p align="center"><i>View of Kerr from Grav (Scatterer + EVE Volumetrics)</i></p>

---

## 🔭 Roadmap (In Development)

- **Orbel & Seereon Completion**  
  Finalizing the Orbel giant system and the Seereon binary, expanding existing worlds with additional planets, moons, and late-stage stellar evolution effects. *(In active development)*

- **Pulsar System**  
  A high-risk, high-reward system built around an active pulsar, featuring extreme radiation, relativistic visuals, and environments Kerbals were never meant to survive.

- **Outer Planets & Kerbol Revamp**  
  Adds new gas giants and icy moons beyond Eeloo while modernizing the Kerbol system with updated visuals, balance tweaks, and improved exploration gameplay.

---

## 🔌 Compatibility
> Full matrix with versions and notes lives here: **[Wiki → Compatibility](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/wiki/Compatibility)**

| Category | Mod | Status | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Core** | Contract Configurator | ✅ | v2.1.3+ required |
|  | Kerbalism | ✅ | Radiation support |
|  | Kerbal Health | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Rational Resources | ✅ | Config support included |
|  | Scaled Decorator | ✅ | Unity Effects |
|  | Sigma Binary | ✅ | Barycenters |
|  | Sigma HeatShifter | ✅ | Heating behavior |
| **Visuals** | Volumetric EVE | ✅ | Clouds, auroras, geysers |
|  | Scatterer | ✅ | Atmospheres, oceans |
|  | Parallax Continued | ✅ | Terrain tessellation |
|  | Singularity | ✅ | Black holes + wormholes |
|  | Firefly | ✅ | Re-entry visuals |
|  | PlanetShine | ✅ | Ambient glow |
|  | Deferred Rendering | ✅ | Optional |
| **Planet Packs** | Celestial Harmony | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Cosmic Serenity | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Kcalbeloh | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | KSRSS | ⚠️ | Only in scaled mode |
|  | Techo's Stock Planet Revamp | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Outer Planets Mod | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Promised Worlds | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Sol/RSS | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Better Kerbol | ❌ | Incompatible: KSS2 already includes its own custom Kerbol configuration and visuals. |

**Not compatible:** Principia, Galaxies Unbound, older KSS2 versions, full-replacement KSRSS, Parallax 1/2, Komplexity, Better Kerbol

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Kaithsurf" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d8c3c30-43e2-49c9-8eca-811d7dedfea9" />

---

## 🧩 Common Fixes
- ❌ **Legacy EVE** is not supported  
- ⚠️ **Maneuver Tool bug** - use **[KSP Community Fixes](https://github.com/KSPModdingLibs/KSPCommunityFixes)**  
- 🌑 **Dark planet** - set *Texture Quality* to **Full** in KSP settings

---

## ❤️ Community & Credits
- **Discord** - updates & support: https://discord.com/invite/8mKywDaujE  
- **YouTube** - dev logs & previews: https://www.youtube.com/@starcrusher96  
- **Patreon** - optional support: https://www.patreon.com/c/StarCrusher96

**Special thanks**  
TheSpacePotato • OoglakKerman • JadeOfMaar • Spaceman • Caden • Chaotic Protocol • Ciara Rayne Cloud • Bogue • Community testers and players

And a big extra thank you to TheSpacePotato, you’ve been in this with me since 2016. True co-pilot energy. 🜂

---

## 📜 License
Licensed under **[CC BY-NC-ND 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)**

- ✅ Share non-commercially with credit  
- ❌ No remixing or derivative works  
- ❌ No asset reuse (textures, models, configs) without explicit permission

Official source: https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2  
![LicenseBadge](https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png)

---

## 🔎 Transparency & Asset Policy
KSS2 prioritizes originality, proper licensing, and respectful collaboration. Process tools (e.g., Photoshop Generative Fill, Grand Designer, Substance Designer) are used to accelerate iteration; final assets are hand-crafted or created with licensed resources.

Read the full policy & audit notes here: **[Wiki → Transparency](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/wiki/Transparency-&-Asset-Policy)**

Commit message:

Enhance README with additional context on KSS2
Expanded on the development background and impact of KSS2.

README.md, after:

![KSS2Banner](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3b2adaf-f4bc-4d4f-abfc-13baac337d79)

![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/total?label=Downloads&logo=github&color=4DC820&style=for-the-badge)
![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2?label=Latest&style=for-the-badge&color=brightgreen)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/609404909464453120?label=Discord&logo=discord&style=for-the-badge)](https://discord.com/invite/8mKywDaujE)
[![License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--NC--ND%204.0-lightgrey.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)

# 🌌 Kerbal Star Systems 2
Kerbal Star Systems 2 (KSS2) expands Kerbal Space Program beyond Kerbol, opening the door to interstellar travel and a set of fully original star systems shaped by real astrophysics and Kerbal curiosity.

Expect unfamiliar suns, unpredictable environments, and planets that don’t always behave the way you hoped they would. Orbits can be tight, atmospheres can be hostile, and long-distance missions have a habit of revealing design flaws at the worst possible moment.

KSS2 focuses on star systems that feel intentional rather than oversized. Planetary behavior, visual character, and gameplay challenges are designed together, so exploration rewards careful planning, creative problem-solving, and the occasional rapid unscheduled disassembly.

The mod is actively developed, with multiple systems and expansions already playable and more added over time. Stability and refinement are a priority, ensuring that when things go wrong, it’s part of the experience, not a technical surprise.

Developed by one of the longest-active modmakers in the Kerbal Space Program community, KSS2 builds on many years of experimentation, iteration, and learning what works (and what definitely doesn’t). That experience shows in a universe designed to be ambitious, resilient, and very hard to accidentally break—at least not without trying. Along the way, its approach to large-scale interstellar worldbuilding has become a reference point for how many other KSP mods design their universes, balance ambition with sanity, and keep things fun when physics gets angry.

---

## 🎯 Why Play KSS2?

- **Venture beyond Kerbol**, travel to entirely new star systems, each handcrafted with care, science, and imagination.  
- **Experience true progression**, uncover late-game missions, ancient anomalies, and interstellar challenges that reward curiosity and persistence.  
- **Lose yourself in the atmosphere**, dynamic clouds, auroras, wormholes, and stars bring each world to life.  
- **Built for players, refined by experience**, optimized for both beauty and performance, shaped by over a decade of worldbuilding and community passion.  

---

## 🌠 Included Star Systems  
_All systems are original creations. They take cues from real space, then the Kerbals made them… stranger._

| In-game System | Inspiration | Short Description |
|----------------|-------------|------------------|
| **Aethera** | TRAPPIST-1 | A tiny red dwarf with planets packed so close you could almost wave at the neighbors. Expect tides, heat traps, and tight orbits. |
| **Nova Kirbani** | Alpha Centauri (A+B) + Proxima | A three-star family: one bright, one steady, one grumpy and flaring. Plenty of worlds caught in their long, complicated dance. |
| **Kormin** | Luhman 16A | A glowing brown dwarf that refuses to behave like a proper star. Warm light, weird seasons, and planets that never quite cool off. |
| **Seereon** | Sirius | A very bright star with a very dense companion. Great for navigation, less great for anything that melts easily. |
| **Orbel** | Pollux | A puffed-up giant star past its prime, slowly cooking its planets into new and exciting shapes. |
| **Kerr** | Galactic Center / Sag A* | A black-hole system where physics cries a little. Extreme gravity, strange lights, and hazards Kerbals definitely weren’t meant to visit. |
| **Pandor Expansion** | Pandora (Avatar (franchise) | Adds a lush, bioluminescent Pandora-analogue moon orbiting the gas giant around Nova Kirbani A. Beautiful, hostile, and rich in scientific rewards. |
| **Red Blalo Expansion** | Crimsica (Helldivers 2) | Reimagines Blalo (Nova Kirbani B System) as its heavily debated red variant, with more oxidized terrain and altered red oceans. |


---

## 📦 Quick Start
| Requirement | Details |
|---|---|
| **KSP Version** | `1.12.x` |
| **RAM** | 16 GB minimum |
| **GPU** | 1–2 GB VRAM recommended |

**Install**
1. Get the latest release: **[GitHub Releases](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/releases)**
2. Follow the **[Installation Guide](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/wiki/How-to-Install-Kerbal-Star-Systems-2)**
3. Install all required dependencies
4. ⚠️ **Manual install only** - CKAN is not supported !

---


## 🖼️ Showcase
| <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3a7afcc6-406c-47c3-ab89-18bc99d784d9" width="450"/> | <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/89b76992-11e8-4c27-840e-411c56d46093" width="450"/> |
|:--:|:--:|
| *Kormin and its moon system* | *Kerr* |

| <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2e66c999-f8c6-463b-868d-30315b8fb2b7" width="450"/> | <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d47d24ad-649f-428d-810a-9f0cb9fbcfe5" width="450"/> |
|:--:|:--:|
| *Aethera erupting in a stellar flare* | *Polynovin and its satellites* |

| <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7d4b14f-b193-4c4b-b172-19cecee8312a" width="450"/> | <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bcd6827d-7e92-4760-b465-b29b6c4c1196" width="450"/> |
|:--:|:--:|
| *Surface of Xolem* | *Surface of Blalo under dim skies* |


---

## 🚀 Features
- Scientifically-inspired systems and planetary design  
- Dynamic atmospheres and **EVE Volumetrics** cloud layers  
- Wormholes, (pulsars in the future), and other exotic phenomena  
- Late-game contracts and discoveries  
- Optimized visuals with **Scatterer** and performance-tuned configs

<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4eb1da6c-3320-4e36-92e8-54d95aed783e" width="1920" height="1080" />
<p align="center"><i>View of Kerr from Grav (Scatterer + EVE Volumetrics)</i></p>

---

## 🔭 Roadmap (In Development)

- **Orbel & Seereon Completion**  
  Finalizing the Orbel giant system and the Seereon binary, expanding existing worlds with additional planets, moons, and late-stage stellar evolution effects. *(In active development)*

- **Pulsar System**  
  A high-risk, high-reward system built around an active pulsar, featuring extreme radiation, relativistic visuals, and environments Kerbals were never meant to survive.

- **Outer Planets & Kerbol Revamp**  
  Adds new gas giants and icy moons beyond Eeloo while modernizing the Kerbol system with updated visuals, balance tweaks, and improved exploration gameplay.

---

## 🔌 Compatibility
> Full matrix with versions and notes lives here: **[Wiki → Compatibility](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/wiki/Compatibility)**

| Category | Mod | Status | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Core** | Contract Configurator | ✅ | v2.1.3+ required |
|  | Kerbalism | ✅ | Radiation support |
|  | Kerbal Health | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Rational Resources | ✅ | Config support included |
|  | Scaled Decorator | ✅ | Unity Effects |
|  | Sigma Binary | ✅ | Barycenters |
|  | Sigma HeatShifter | ✅ | Heating behavior |
| **Visuals** | Volumetric EVE | ✅ | Clouds, auroras, geysers |
|  | Scatterer | ✅ | Atmospheres, oceans |
|  | Parallax Continued | ✅ | Terrain tessellation |
|  | Singularity | ✅ | Black holes + wormholes |
|  | Firefly | ✅ | Re-entry visuals |
|  | PlanetShine | ✅ | Ambient glow |
|  | Deferred Rendering | ✅ | Optional |
| **Planet Packs** | Celestial Harmony | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Cosmic Serenity | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Kcalbeloh | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | KSRSS | ⚠️ | Only in scaled mode |
|  | Techo's Stock Planet Revamp | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Outer Planets Mod | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Promised Worlds | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Sol/RSS | ✅ | Compatible |
|  | Better Kerbol | ❌ | Incompatible: KSS2 already includes its own custom Kerbol configuration and visuals. |

**Not compatible:** Principia, Galaxies Unbound, older KSS2 versions, full-replacement KSRSS, Parallax 1/2, Komplexity, Better Kerbol

<img width="1920" height="1080" alt="Kaithsurf" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d8c3c30-43e2-49c9-8eca-811d7dedfea9" />

---

## 🧩 Common Fixes
- ❌ **Legacy EVE** is not supported  
- ⚠️ **Maneuver Tool bug** - use **[KSP Community Fixes](https://github.com/KSPModdingLibs/KSPCommunityFixes)**  
- 🌑 **Dark planet** - set *Texture Quality* to **Full** in KSP settings

---

## ❤️ Community & Credits
- **Discord** - updates & support: https://discord.com/invite/8mKywDaujE  
- **YouTube** - dev logs & previews: https://www.youtube.com/@starcrusher96  
- **Patreon** - optional support: https://www.patreon.com/c/StarCrusher96

**Special thanks**  
TheSpacePotato • OoglakKerman • JadeOfMaar • Spaceman • Caden • Chaotic Protocol • Ciara Rayne Cloud • Bogue • Community testers and players

And a big extra thank you to TheSpacePotato, you’ve been in this with me since 2016. True co-pilot energy. 🜂

---

## 📜 License
Licensed under **[CC BY-NC-ND 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)**

- ✅ Share non-commercially with credit  
- ❌ No remixing or derivative works  
- ❌ No asset reuse (textures, models, configs) without explicit permission

Official source: https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2  
![LicenseBadge](https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png)

---

## 🔎 Transparency & Asset Policy
KSS2 prioritizes originality, proper licensing, and respectful collaboration. Process tools (e.g., Photoshop Generative Fill, Grand Designer, Substance Designer) are used to accelerate iteration; final assets are hand-crafted or created with licensed resources.

Read the full policy & audit notes here: **[Wiki → Transparency](https://github.com/StarCrusher96/Kerbal-Star-Systems-2/wiki/Transparency-&-Asset-Policy)**
